[ADD] contributing: new guides for contributing to the codebases (#3169)
odoo/documentation: content/contributing/documentation.rst

documentation, whether you plan to make a minor content change or document an application from
scratch.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Discover other ways to contribute to Odoo <../contributing>`

Read the :ref:`introduction to the reStructuredText language <contributing/documentation/rst-intro>`
if you are not familiar with it. Then, you have two courses of action to start contributing to the
documentation, depending on whether you want to propose minor changes to existing content or you
instead want to work on significant changes to new and existing content.

> - **For minor changes**, for example, adding a paragraph or fixing a typo, we recommend that you
>   **use the GitHub interface**. This is the easiest and fastest way to submit your changes, and it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **For minor changes**, for example, adding a paragraph or fixing a typo, we recommend
  **using the GitHub interface**. This is the easiest and fastest way to submit your changes, and it
```

Author: Indeed. I choose this form to reference the "Use the GitHub interface" tab below but I realize that I renamed it at some point :sweat_smile:

  is suitable for non-technical people. Jump directly to the
  :ref:`contributing/documentation/first-contribution` section to get started.
- **For more complex changes**, it is necessary to **use Git** and work from a local copy of the
  documentation. Follow the instructions in the :ref:`contributing/documentation/setup` section to
  first prepare your environment.

.. _contributing/documentation/rst-intro:

reStructuredText (RST)
======================

The documentation is written in **reStructuredText** (RST), a `lightweight markup language
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language>`_ consisting of regular text augmented
with markup, which allows including headings, images, notes, and so on. This might seem a bit
abstract, but there is no need to worry; :abbr:`RST (reStructuredText)` is not hard to learn,
especially if you intend to make minor changes to the content.

> If you need to learn about a specific markup, head over to our :doc:`cheat sheet for RST
> <documentation/rst_cheat_sheet>`, which contains all the information you should ever need for the
> documentation of Odoo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to learn about a specific markup, head over to our :doc:`cheat sheet for RST
<documentation/rst_cheat_sheet>`; it contains all the information you should ever need for the
documentation of Odoo.
```

.. _contributing/documentation/setup:

Environment setup
=================

The instructions below help you prepare your environment for making local changes to the
documentation and then push them to GitHub. Skip this section and go to
:ref:`contributing/documentation/first-contribution` if you have already completed this step or want
to make changes from the GitHub interface.

#. .. include:: create_github_account.rst
#. .. include:: configure_github_account.rst
#. Go to `github.com/odoo/documentation <https://github.com/odoo/documentation>`_ and click on the
   :guilabel:`Fork` button in the top right corner to create a fork (:dfn:`your own copy`) of the
   repository on your account. This creates a copy of the codebase to which you can make changes
   without affecting the main codebase. Skip this step if you work at Odoo.
#. .. include:: install_git.rst
#. .. include:: configure_git_authorship.rst
#. Clone the sources with Git and navigate into the local repository.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ git clone git@github.com:odoo/documentation.git
      $ cd documentation

#. Configure Git to push changes to your fork rather than to the main codebase. In the commands

>    below, replace `<your_github_account>` by the name of the GitHub account on which you created the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   below, replace `<your_github_account>` with the name of the GitHub account on which you created the
```

Author: This sounds better to me too, but I need clarification about the rule here. I find resources recommending using "with" when the replacement "has the same function" (e.g., replace a light bulb with a new one) and "by" when the replacement is a different kind (e.g., replace workers by machines). I also find resources recommending "with" when the sentence is passive and "by" otherwise.

Reviewer: At the end of your comment, you meant "active," I suppose?
Still trying to figure it out too. I guess I found the same sources as you:
- https://www.btb.termiumplus.gc.ca/tpv2guides/guides/wrtps/index-eng.html?lang=eng&lettr=indx_catlog_r&page=9uHivBTl6Dzk.html
-https://www.quora.com/Whats-the-difference-between-replace-with-and-replace-by)

Author: Yes

   and `pip <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installation/>`_ on your machine.
#. Install the Python dependencies of the documentation with pip.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ pip install -r requirements.txt

   Verify that the installation directory of the Python dependencies is included in your system's
   `PATH` variable.

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Linux and macOS

         Follow the `guide to update the PATH variable on Linux and macOS
         <https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/26059>`_ with the installation path of the Python
         dependencies (by default :file:`~/.local/bin`).

      .. group-tab:: Windows

         Follow the `guide to update the PATH variable on Windows
         <https://www.howtogeek.com/118594/how-to-edit-your-system-path-for-easy-command-line-access/>`_
         with the installation path of the Python dependencies.

#. Install Make.

   .. tabs::

      .. group-tab:: Linux and macOS

         .. code-block:: console

            $ sudo apt install make -y

      .. group-tab:: Windows

         Follow the `guide to install Make on Windows
         <https://www.technewstoday.com/install-and-use-make-in-windows>`_.

> #. `Install pngquant <https://pngquant.org/>`_.

Reviewer: I can't tell for other OS, but for Windows, there is no installer and no explanation on pngquant.org website
my steps were:
- extract the zip file
- cut/paste the `pngquant` folder to C:\Program Files (x86)
- add `C:\Program Files (x86)\pngquant` to the PATH

Author: Shame. I will keep it as is for now and maybe come back to it later when I redo a full Windows install, or let other contributors update the steps.

Author: Wait, even better :grin: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/15896813/210216279-0146529e-b82e-45fa-9b96-06ce784554cf.png)

Reviewer: Hahahhaa ^^

      #. Verify that you are browsing the documentation in the version that you intend to change.
         The version can be selected from the dropdown in the top menu.
      #. Head to the page that you want to change and click on the :guilabel:`Edit on GitHub` button
         in the top right corner of the page.
      #. Click on the :guilabel:`Fork this repository` button to create a fork (:dfn:`your own
         copy`) of the repository on your account. This creates a copy of the codebase to which you
         can make changes without affecting the main codebase. Skip this step if you work at Odoo.

         .. image:: documentation/fork-repository.png
            :scale: 60%

      #. Make the desired changes while taking care of following the :doc:`content
         <documentation/content_guidelines>` and :doc:`RST <documentation/rst_guidelines>`
         guidelines.

         .. tip::
            Click on the :guilabel:`Preview changes` button to review your contribution in a more
            human-readable format. Be aware that the preview is not able to handle all markups
            correctly. Notes and tips, for instance, are shown as plain text.

>       #. Scroll to the bottom of the page and fill the small form to propose your changes. In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      #. Scroll to the bottom of the page and fill out the small form to propose your changes. In the
```

            Use :command:`make help` to learn about other useful commands.

      #. Commit your changes. Write a clear commit message as instructed in the :doc:`Git guidelines
         <development/git_guidelines>`.

         .. code-block:: console

            $ git add .
            $ git commit

      #. Push your change to your fork, for which we added the remote alias `dev`.

         .. example::

            .. code-block:: console

               $ git push -u dev {CURRENT_BRANCH}-explain-pricelists

         If you work at Odoo, push your changes directly to the main codebase whose remote alias is
         `origin`.

         .. example::

            .. code-block:: console

               $ git push -u origin {CURRENT_BRANCH}-explain-pricelists-xyz

      #. Open a :abbr:`PR (Pull Request)` on GitHub to submit your changes for review.

         #. Go to the `compare page of the odoo/documentation codebase
            <https://github.com/odoo/documentation/compare>`_.
         #. Select **{CURRENT_BRANCH}** for the base.
         #. Click on :guilabel:`compare across forks`.
         #. Select **<your_github_account>/odoo** for the head repository. Replace

>             `<your_github_account>` by the name of the GitHub account on which you created the fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            `<your_github_account>` with the name of the GitHub account on which you created the fork.
```
